barari he's a professor of international
Affairs at katar University Hassan thank
you for joining us again this us veto
for the Palestinian bid another
Palestinian bid it feels like it comes
low in a shifting International
landscape where we are actually seeing
more and more countries in favor of of
recognizing Palestine as a full member
yeah it is obvious that the majority of
states around the world came to the
realization that probably the only way
for solving or resolving the Arab
Israeli conflict is by empowering the
Palestinian and giving them a state and
it seems that only the United State who
is not really on board and they actually
uh making the case that this would this
should come after negotiation problem
here that when when you say this you
give the Israelis the the right to veto
any outcome because the Israelis have
not been really forthcoming when it come
when it comes to giving the Palestinians
their own right to
self-determination uh so yes as you said
from the G ago there's more people more
countries around the World realize that
the Palestinians should be uh see should
be um given their independence and
should be admitted to the United Nation
as a full member not as an observer well
we'll see where those conversations go I
do also want to ask you about Rafa
obviously the US has been pretty vocal
about what they view would be a mistake
in Rafa in recent weeks they now having
these conversations with the Israelis
how much influence and leverage does
Washington have right now on what Israel
decides in the South well prior to the
Iranian attack on Israel the Americans
seem to me having more probably the
leverage to influence na uh but now with
with with the attack I think this has
eased and nowo feel that you know his
country was the victim uh and now he has
the right to continue whatever he wanted
to do uh his argument to the Americans
and to everyone else that the total
Victory will not be achieved without
moving into Rafa the problem here is
that what are you going to do with the
humanitarian dimension of the conflict
how many people you going to kill uh how
many civilians going to be displaced and
all these questions are actually uh
being debated with with the American but
it seems to me that the Americans have
been moving slowly but surely toward
ano's decision to move into Rafa well if
Netanyahu is now feeling emboldened he
he's still saying to the us that they
will try to protect civilians we're
hearing from our correspondent about
vague plans for evacuations we still
don't know where people would even be
Evac too we're talking about 1.5 million
people is is something of that scale
even possible given what's already
happened in Gaza I I don't see this as
happening in in a safe way uh I think
what the Israel is trying to do is to
give the impression uh that they they're
they care about the civilian but they
don't you know you know given the the
toll and more than 34,000 people were
killed and maybe 880,000 people were
injured 80% of the houses were
demolished so they really not qualified
morally to talk about this in indeed
what they interested is just you know
it's a smoke screen behind this it
conceals what the Israelis are trying to
do is to dismantle Hamas and to achieve
a votal um total victory at any cost
well so let me ask you then about the US
perspective on this because they're
saying they share this objective of
defeating Hamas and Rafa but they do
believe it's possible to do that while
protecting civilians what are the
Americans proposing some kind of limited
special ops kind of mission well I think
all these statements coming from Biden's
Administration are performative I mean
they are just you know playing to the
ears of the Americans because there are
a lot of critiques in America about how
Biden's uh administration's um
Administration have has has U um
supported Israel so we is trying to
assure them that America is still cares
about humanitarian aspect but at the
same time you know he's playing into the
hand of Nano Nano has been good at
manipulating the American Administration
to his own and he's moving slowly but
surely and the Americans who were like
saying no to
invading or now say yes but you know and
and this is you know when you give the
Israelis yes but it means you know this
is like a green light well another
critical part of the humanitarian
picture here is obviously that Rafa is
the primary entry point for land
Crossings of Aid into the Gaza Strip for
the whole Gaza Strip at the moment we
we've seen the Israelis in in recent
weeks open I should put that in ambass
of commer open another Crossing in the
north where we're seeing very little Aid
come through I've been wondering whether
that's been preparation for some kind of
rougher offensive and and what the
broader impact on Aid a huge land
offensive in the South would would be
well I think this is part of the Israeli
propaganda that they car that they care
about the Palestinians because you know
the Americans who were like criticizing
Israel for not allowing for the aid to
come into into Gaza and now with the
American mean just um last night they
were talking about the Improvement in
the humanitarian aspect but you know the
Israelis they really don't care about
the Palestinian they see them as human
they see them as subhuman you know given
the way they refer to them as amalik and
also the minister of defense or talking
about them as even animals human animals
they call them but you know they want to
um uh they want the International
Community to um be assured that Israel
is taking care of the aid but you know
at the same time we know that the
Israelis were trying actually to kick
the Palestinians and expel expel them so
uh starvation is one of the one of the
weapons used by the Israelis and
effectively a ground defensive in Rafa
would pretty much cut off the only path
in for Aid as would make it really tough
for the Palestinians Hassan barari thank
you for joining us again on the aler
news now